ADR to add custom operatorspec properties (#4026)
Azure/azure-service-operator: docs/hugo/content/design/ADR-2024-05-OperatorSpec-Custom-Properties/_index.md

---
title: 2024-05 OperatorSpec Custom Properties
---

## Context

> When generating the AzureName for a RoleAssignment, we currently use a deterministic algorithm to generate a GUID, allowing RoleAssignment resources to be moved between instances of Azure Service Operator (AS)O without changes. This approach doesn't handle every scenario, and we have a bug report (see [#3637](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/issues/3637)) from a user who needs different behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating the AzureName for a RoleAssignment, we currently use a deterministic algorithm to generate a GUID, allowing RoleAssignment resources to be moved between instances of Azure Service Operator (ASO) without changes. This approach doesn't handle every scenario, and we have a bug report (see [#3637](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/issues/3637)) from a user who needs different behaviour.
```

### Option 1: Per-property configuration

Extend our configuration to allow the need for a new operator spec property to be declared against a specific resource property.

``` yaml
  authorization:
    2020-08-01-preview:
      RoleAssignment:
        AzureName:
          $operatorSpecProperty:
              name: generationType
              type: string
    ```

* PRO: Makes it clear the relationship between the new operator property and the resource property it configures.
* CON: Only allows one operator spec property per resource property.
* CON: Not a great fit when there are multiple properties influenced by a single operatorSpec property.

### Option 2: Per-resource configuration

Extend our configuration to allow the need for a new operator spec property to be declared against a specific resource.

``` yaml
  authorization:
    2020-08-01-preview:
      RoleAssignment:
        $operatorSpecProperties:
          - name: generationType
            type: string
```

* PRO: Allows multiple operator spec properties to be declared against a single resource.
* PRO: Allows for operator spec properties that aren't specific to a single property or group of properties

> * CON: Doesn't make it clear which resource properties are influenced by the operator spec property.

Reviewer 2: I think this con is pretty mitigatable with documentation (either in the code or in the ASO YAML or both, depending on what we think makes the most sense)
